# Waii Hands-on Lab Tutorial

How to setup the lab:

## Launch the streamlit application

1. Create new virtual environment (under the project root folder)

```
python3 -m venv waii
```

2. Activate the virtual environment

```
source waii/bin/activate
```

3. Install the requirements

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Run the demo

```
LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG streamlit run main.py
```

It should open a browser window with the Streamlit app. It's a simple ping-pong chatbot. Basically answer whatever you type.

## Build your own bots tutorial

### Step 0: Understand the basics (10 mins)

This step is to understand basic of the streamlit chatbot framework.

[Understand the basics](./lab-docs/0_understand_the_basics.md)

### Step 1: Create basic SQL Bot (20 mins)

This will build a simple SQL bot that generates SQL queries based on the user input.

[Basic SQL bot](./lab-docs/1_sql_bot.md)

### Step 2: SQL bot with query run results (10 mins)

This will upgrade the SQL bot to execute the generated SQL query and display the results.

[SQL bot with results](./lab-docs/2_sql_bot_with_results.md)

### Step 3: SQL bot with capability to update the query (20 mins)

This will allow the user to update the generated SQL query, ask to fix the query, and re-run the query.

[SQL bot with update](./lab-docs/3_sql_bot_with_update.md)

## Step 4: Derive insights from the data (20 mins)

This will add the capability to derive insights from the data generated by the SQL query.

[SQL bot with data insight](./lab-docs/4_sql_bot_with_data_insight.md)

## Step 5: Optional steps, add visualization, grounding the bot with the data, and more. (20 mins)

This will add more features to the bot, such as visualization, grounding the bot with the data, and more.
[SQL bot with visualization](./lab-docs/5_sql_bot_with_visualization.md)

## Q&A, feedback, and wrap-up (10-20 mins)